Fix #224: Update text for static DH oracle (#254)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf: draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf.md

that have reduced the security of the assumption below that implied by
the group instantiation (for example, {{BG04}} and {{Cheon06}}). In
summary, the attacks reduce the security of the group instantiation by
log_2(Q)/2 bits. Note that the attacks only work in situations where Q
divides p-1 or p+1, where p is the order of the prime-order group used
to instantiate the OPRF. 

As an example, suppose that a group instantiation is used that provides
128 bits of security against discrete log cryptanalysis. Then an
adversary with access to a Q-sDH oracle and makes Q=2^20 queries can
reduce the security of the instantiation by log_2(2^20)/2 = 10 bits. Launching an attack would require

> 2^{p/2-(log(Q)/2} bits of memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2^(p/2-log_2(Q)/2) bits of memory.
```
Please double-check.

that have reduced the security of the assumption below that implied by
the group instantiation (for example, {{BG04}} and {{Cheon06}}). In
summary, the attacks reduce the security of the group instantiation by
log_2(Q)/2 bits. Note that the attacks only work in situations where Q
divides p-1 or p+1, where p is the order of the prime-order group used
to instantiate the OPRF. 

As an example, suppose that a group instantiation is used that provides
128 bits of security against discrete log cryptanalysis. Then an
adversary with access to a Q-sDH oracle and makes Q=2^20 queries can

> reduce the security of the instantiation by log_2(2^20)/2 = 10 bits. It
> is worth highlighting that launching an attack would require
> 2^{p/2-(log(Q)/2} bits of memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reduce the security of the instantiation by log_2(2^20)/2 = 10 bits. Launching an attack would require
2^{p/2-(log(Q)/2} bits of memory.
```

Reviewer: it this 2^p of 2^log(p) ?

The OPRF instantiations that we recommend in this document are informed
by the cryptanalytic discussion above. In particular, choosing elliptic
curves configurations that describe 128-bit group instantiations would
appear to in fact instantiate an OPRF with 128-(log_2(Q)/2) bits of
security. Moreover, such attacks are only possible for those certain
applications where the adversary can query the OPRF directly.

> In applications where such an oracle is not made available, or where
> OPRF keys are derived on a per-client basis such as in
> {{!I-D.irtf-cfrg-opaque}}, the security loss does not apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In applications where such an oracle is not made available this security loss does not apply.
```

The OPRF instantiations that we recommend in this document are informed
by the cryptanalytic discussion above. In particular, choosing elliptic
curves configurations that describe 128-bit group instantiations would
appear to in fact instantiate an OPRF with 128-(log_2(Q)/2) bits of
security. Moreover, such attacks are only possible for those certain
applications where the adversary can query the OPRF directly.

> In applcations where such an oracle is not made available, such as in

Reviewer 2: Hmm... is this true? The OPRF oracle output is included in the server's response to the client, it just so happens that the OPRF key is unique per user.

Author: Ah, misunderstood the setting, I have changed the text

{{!I-D.irtf-cfrg-opaque}}, do not admit the same security loss.

In most cases, it would require an informed and persistent attacker to
launch a highly expensive attack to reduce security to anything much
below 100 bits of security. We see this possibility as something that
may result in problems in the future. For applications that admit the
aforementioned oracle functionality, and that cannot tolerate discrete logarithm

> security of lower than 128 bits, we recommend only implementing
> ciphersuites with IDs: 0x0002, 0x0004, and 0x0005.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
security of lower than 128 bits, we recommend only implementing
ciphersuites with IDs 0x0002, 0x0004, and 0x0005.
```
